Looking at our architecture,
the client credential grant is appropriate for the requests
between the portfolio and pricing service as there is no user
resource on the pricing service.
We could also use the client credentials for communication between all services.
I've seen this approach used.
It can work in an environment where every service trusts each
other as there are pros and cons to consider.
If the token gets leaked,
it can only be used against the service it was intended for,
which is great.
However, since the resource owner is the other service and not a user,
it won't have any user state on it.
Hence, the user details need to be passed in the request body.
So in case of the portfolio service or support service,
the bearer can access any user resources.
So they have to be very trustworthy as there is no way to verify
that the user actually approved that request.
Hence, you have to weigh up the pros and cons.
For the demo,
we will do token relay between the BFFs and the product and support service.
Ideally,
we should only include the username in the token or a GUID identifying them,
which we can then use for authorization checks.
All other details would be passed in the request body.
And then those services will choose what they should and shouldn't pass down.
Now there are some alternatives in the pipeline from the OAuth2 working group.
One is Token Exchange and the other is JWT Bearer Token Grant.
These will allow you to do things like impersonate a user.
So for example,
the web MVC app or the React BFF could exchange the access token received
from the authentication server and approved by the user for another token
that is a subset of the original token.
Hence, if one of them was making a call to the portfolio service,
it could use the current token and ask the authorization server
for a new token with limited scopes and claims for what is
required by the portfolio service.
Hence, the bearer of that token cannot do anything on a support service.
The bearer grant is not yet supported by Spring Security 5.1,
but might be in Spring 5.2, and token exchange will probably follow.
So look out for these.
I will update the course once they are released.
So if you're watching the course and they are made available,
feel free to message me in the comments to remind me to get it added. Keycloak actually already has some support for token exchange.